Reflection Paper

Sam Floyd

"All you need is infinite love!" by jcponcemath : https://p5js.org/sketches/2484739/ 

The sketch that I chose to compare mine to is titled "All you need is love!" by jcponcemath online. The link to the sketch has been provided above. Our seperate sketches contrast greatly, from the color scheme to the amount of complexity, and much more. Jcponcemath's appears like it is meant to look like an animation displayed on an LED powered screen, where each light must turn on and off as well as change colors at certain intervals to create a unique image. They achieved this by drawing a bunch of different circles in rows with their code, then making them switch from white, black and red, as well as having them shrink and then return back to their original size to create the illusion of a cohesive animated image. One thing that is very interesting is that although jcponcemath's sketch looks much more complex, they used significantly less lines of code than I did. After looking at their coding, I assume this is because they were able to automatically code the circles to create the heart shapes and animation by using some sort of pattern. It looks like they were able to insert this pre-made pattern to align with the specifics of their sketch and it saved them a lot of in-depth code as it filled in the gaps. I like the simple but unique approach to the sketch, and with the title, it creates a sweet message about the importance of love. They demonstrate that there are easy ways to create something really noteworthy in a sketch.

While "All you need is love!" is a piece of made-up imagery that uses only circles to illustrate it, my sketch, in contrast, depicts a landscape with the use of a couple different shapes. Rectangles are used virtically in a line at differnt colors to create the ground, triiangles that streach to unique heights depict trees, and layered circles make up the sun and it's rays. I wanted to use bright colors to give it life and depict the color the sky sometimes turns during a beautiful sunset. It's a simplistic image, but I think the way it is depicted is unique. My sketch is also interactive, which differs from jcponcemath's, as it is a continuous loop. I managed to add the effect of fireflies to the landscape which can be interacted with through clicking or moving your mouse as they buzz around. This adds a layer of aliveness to the sketch but I think also helps illustrate that it is turning night instead of day. I realize that my code is much longer because of the amount of shapes I added individually, instead of creating columns and rows like jcponcemath, which would only take up two lines of code. The addition of the fireflies did add a lot as well, though.

Overall, I am pretty proud of the work I have done so far, as I am kind of rusty with my coding skills. Both sketches are special and unique in their own ways, with very different messages and goals, as well as method of coding. 