Due to my own personal beliefs regarding generative AI, I have elected to not use ChatGPT for the second part of this assignment. I deeply apologize and recognize that it may affect my grade, but as an artist myself, it is important to me that I do not use it. There are many reasons for this, such as it's devastating environmental impact as well as my strong belief that AI art can be very harmful to the art community. While I am abstaining from the AI portion of this assignment, I would still like to fill out this reflection, so I have chosen to elaborate more on my reasons against it. I hope that you will respect my thoughts on this, and I deeply apologize for the trouble. 

When discussing how AI art is harmful to the art community, one of the biggest cons to AI art is the fact that it brings about the unemployment of artists. Because using an art generator is quick, easy, and free, more and more companies have resorted to AI for products and advertising. This both lowers the quality of their products, due to the fact that AI is still learning, and many instances of this type of art can be identified through errors in the way that hands or background objects are drawn, but also prevents artists from being able to find jobs in which their work will get paid for, unless they are being asked to use AI themselves. A once-struggling job with low demand in the first place is becoming even harder to find, especially one that will pay the bills when there is such a simple “solution” right there. This is not only an issue for artists, but also for other creative jobs like writers. AI is becoming one of the reasons writers will go on strike because they are not getting paid for their own work. As previously mentioned, the use of artificial intelligence in these ways erases the humanity that is essential for these art forms to be special and worth appreciating. 

Not only is AI harmful to art forms, but it is also damaging to the planet. According to the UN Environment Program, or UNEP,  the data centres in which AI deployments are located, “rely on a staggering amount of grist: making a 2 kg computer requires 800 kg of raw materials. As well, the microchips that power AI need rare earth elements, which are often mined in environmentally destructive ways”. Within this process, the electronic waste that is produced as a result usually contains very harmful substances, mercury and lead being some of them, which can poison nearby areas where people live and waterways. This by itself is a very harmful result of the high demand for AI usage, which doesn’t include the fact that the infrastructure needed for AI consumes “six times more water than Denmark”, as stated by the UNEP. The overwhelming use of artificial intelligence every day contributes to these harmful effects. AI may seem harmless as it is “just a computer generator”, but it actually impacts the Earth as well as the living situation of many people. It is, however, not widely known just how severely it is affecting us. Clean water is being used in large amounts, and pollutants are finding their way into water sources and the ground, causing unsafe environments for animals as well as humans. Which, in turn, affects the natural ecosystem. These are just some of the physically harmful results of artificial intelligence that we can see happening today.

For these reasons, I cannot in good conscience support the usage of AI in the generation of artworks. There is absolutely good in its creation and use in other subjects like healthcare, as previously mentioned, but there are instances in which it should be restricted and not used so freely, in my opinion. It takes away valuable meaning from art, has lowered the employment rate even further for creative jobs, and is becoming very harmful and wasteful to the environment. 

My Source:
www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/ai-has-environmental-problem-heres-what-world-can-do-about